
ATTENTION GETTING
	Everyone get out your phone and raise it in the air.
	If you don't have a barcode scanner then please download a barcode scanner app.
	There will be barcodes.
	I will talk about evil barcodes. Any evil barcodes will be clearly marked.
	Raise your hand if you'd trust the contents of a QR code you saw at work or school before hearing about this talk.


	CREDIBILITY
		Aaron Thomas, first year undergraduate student at PSU Berks
			going for SRA Major
			previously spoken at Bloomcon 2017

	THESIS
		Bad people can steal fliers and then put up copies with their benign QR codes replaced with malicious QR codes.

	GO OVER MAIN POINTS
		We are going to go over some basic information about QR codes
		then we will examine what I have dubbed the antiflier attack
		finally we will examine some security controls and policy to stop and detect the attack

	WIIFM?
		After this talk is done you'll know more about QR codes than most people and have a good idea of what policy and controls can be used to mitigate an antiflier attack from affecting you.


I hope your barcode scanners are ready, because we are about to look at some QR codes.
All of these QR codes work on my android phone. If you have an iPhone some of these might not work.


TALKING ABOUT QR CODES
	QR codes are 2d barcodes.
	When you go to a store and buy something they scan a 1d barcode.
	You can encode anything inside of a barcode.

	SLIDE WITH BASIC HELLO WORLD BARCODE
		Most of the time QR codes contain text. Scan this QR code.

	SLIDE WITH MY CONTACT INFORMATION
		You can encode contact info in a QR code.
		This one has my name and EMAIL address.
		(maybe also a burner phone)

	SLIDE WITH GEOLOCATION DATA
		You can encode geographical coordinates in a QR code.

	SLIDE WITH SMS (if you get a burner)
		QR codes can even encode an SMS message.
		This one will have you send a text message to my burner phone.

	SLIDE WITH WIFI (dummy network)
		QR codes can encode your wifi password and let people connect to it.
		It is important to note if you tweet a picture containing a QR code containing your wifi password then anyone can see it. Your wifi password is ENCODED in the image but exists in plaintext. It is NOT ENCRYPTED.

	SLIDE WITH LINK (to techtalklive? or my twitter? rickroll...?)
		Most of the time when you encounter a QR code in the wild it will be a link to some website.


With a good understanding of what can go into a QR code let's look at what an attacker can do.


ANTIFLIER ATTACK
	BASICS
		The premise of the antiflier attack is simple. A bad person steals a flier and puts up copies with modified QR codes.

	BAD THINGS ATTACKER CAN DO
		Control what URLs your employees visit on their phones.
			run malicious javascript in the browser and redirect
				//do bad things
				window.location = "example.com";
			phish with lookalike websites
			spread propoganda
		Plant false contact info
			potentially intercepting confidential data
		Put a fake wifi password up
			Now you're in the attacker's network
			They have traffic which may contain sensitive data
			They can do a man in the middle

	ATTACK SURFACE


	ATTACKER CONSIDERATIONS?
		How often are there people near the bulletin board who will notice the attacker?
		Will any of those people do anything if they see someone take a flier from a bulletin board?
		Will any of them care if they see someone put a flier onto a bulletin board?
		Is the bulletin board difficult to access?
		
	SIMULATE ATTACK
		Doing it without telling anything is very sketchy, probably illegal.
		As research it involves deceiving a massive amount of people, probably unethical.
		That'll be sorted out this summer, then I can do research in the fall.
		GOALS
			Doesn't interfere with normal use
			Log every hit on an antiflier with useful data
			Protect 'user' privacy
		SOLUTION:
			I made it. RedirectLogQ
			URL redirection that logs every redirect and uses cookies to log duplicate hits.
			Built on Python and MongoDB
			FEATURES!
				Able to have multiple redirect tokens per URL
					"SADFJN" -> "techtalklive.org"
					"LKSADF" -> "techtalklive.org"
					Redirect token is a UUID converted to base62
					What does a fliertoken look like?
						Flier = {
							real_url =  "the url they will be redirected to",
							token = "the unique base62 string associated with the flier",
							location = "some string to help remember info about the flier"
						}   
				Logs duplicate hits anonymously
					Every hit we check for our cookie, if the user doesn't have one we give them a cookie.
					In each hit we log the cookie that we give them/they already had
					Each cookie is a UUID
					What does a hit look like?
						Hit = {
							time = "when they were redirected",
							token = "the token they used to be redirected",
							cookie = "the cookie we gave them"
						}
						that!
			Doesn't interfere with normal use?
				CHECK! users are redirected with a 303 HTTP response
			Log every hit on an antiflier with useful metadata?
				CHECK! we get lots of useful data
			Protect 'user' privacy?
				CHECK! we don't store any PII, only a randomly generated cookie that we feed them
			PROBLEMS?
				If user disables cookies or frequently deletes them it may affect our data.

			BTW it's released under GPL-3.0
			github.com/metruption/redirectlogq


QUOTE ABOUT KNOW YOUR ENEMY
make a joke about sun tzu quotes
then attribute the quote to green day


CONTROLS AND POLICY
	GOALS
		Limit access to physical bulletin boards
		Quickly identify and remove any antifliers which may have been posted
		Have users who notice something is wrong and speak up about it

	LIMIT ACCESS
		Glass case makes it much more difficult to stealthily manipulate the contents of a bulletin board
		Put a lock on the glass case
			something about lockpicking

	IDENTIFY AND REMOVE ANTIFLIERS
		We already have limited physical access, make all the fliers go through one place.
		Regularly checking the QR codes for parity is still a pain in the but, there's got to be a better way.
		Is there a way to make all of the QR codes with links to websites easily identifiable?
			yes!
			Setup your own RedirectLogQ server!
			Any QR code with a url that doesn't go through your server is unregulated and shouldn't be there.
				take it down!
			also helps users notice something is wrong...
				why is there a link to <phishing link>? normally they are company.com/redirect=
			You can control which redirect tokens exist, attackers won't be able to use proper redirect URLs.

	PROBLEMS
		We're only convering QR codes containing URLS (if you think of a solution before talk put this in)
			Don't use QR codes containing sensitive data.
			Verifying QR codes with contact info or geocoordinates can't be easily done with RedirectLogQ.
			Print a phone number or email address directly on the flier.
			Print the address directly on the flier.

	POLICY
	 	Make sure only verified QR codes get posted
	 	Verified QR codes go through an internal RedirectLogQ server
	 		All other QR codes (including ones that aren't URLs) are unverified
	 	Only certified individuals may add/remove fliers to/from the bulletin boards
	 	Promote security minded culture, report things which seem amiss
	 	Make sure the Bulletin Board Guardian likes their job.


SIGNAL OF CONCLUSION (aaron write this)

SUMMARY
	At first looked at what QR codes are and how they can be used, then we discussed what an antiflier attack is, just moments ago we designed policy prevent, identify, and mitigate an antiflier attack.

CLINCHER
	I'll leave you with one last QR code to scan. It has a link to slides, notes, and other various things related to this talk which you may find useful. They were very useful to me.

ANY QUESTIONS?!
